STEP BY STEP INSTALLATION PROCESS TO INSTALL MYSQL ON UBUNTU

 --- pwd 
This is to verify the current directory i am working on

--- ls
This is to list the directories on my machine.

--- ls -l 
This is to list all the directories and also to let me know the permissions i have on each directory

---wget https://dev.mysql.com/get/mysql-apt-config_0.8.10-1_all.deb
This is to download the link copied to the current directory.

---ls
This is to verify that the file (dev.mysql.com/get/mysql-apt-config_0.8.10-1_all.deb)
downloaded successfully.


---sudo dpkg -i mysql-apt-config* 
Note: it prompted me to enter sudo passwword  
This is to install the .deb packed that was downloaded.
note -i ---- this is to indicate that i wanted to install from the specified file.

Note: A configuration message will pop up asking to specify the version of MYSQL You would prefer,
Since the defaults will add repositories for the latest version of MYSQL, 
I just scrolled to the bottom of the page with the down arrow key to select OK and enter.

--- sudo apt update
This is to to refresh the newly installed package.
Note: it prompted me to enter sudo passwword 
Running the above command returned message : 152 packages can be upgraded.

--- sudo apt install mysql-server
I used the above command to install mysqlserver
apt looked for the mysqlserver package and i clicked Y and Enter to continue.
I set a root password with strong characters.
A message popped up in a dialogue box asking to select a default authentication plugin, then i selected Use Strong Password Encryption.

---sudo systemctl status mysql
I used the above command to confirm and verify that mysql installed successfully and it is up and running.
After running the above command --- Active : active message returned to verify that mysql is up and running OK. 

-- mysql_secure_installation
Used the above command to secure the mysql installation.

This command will ask for the new root password which was set during the installation.
I clicked enter to skip the validate password plugin.
I then chose Y and enter to remove anonymous user, disallow remote login, remove testdatabse, reload priviledge tables.

---mysqladmin -u -root -p version
Used the above administrative command to connect to the server to retrieve status information and also to check the version of the mysql server that was installed.


